programming language:
1.english language needs for communication and here grammar is essential for making a sentence
2.the above statement is the purpose for human basic things but when there is a name called "computer"
here the language is the one to communicate with them.
3.for english there's should be grammar but in computer there's should be a syntax.
4.computer language needs for communication and here syntax is essential for making a sentence
5.example:
english:
he ate a choco---right
choco a ate he---wrong
computer:
import pandas as pd---right
pd as pandas import---wrong

6.a machine is used as a tool for human to reduce time for them or to get a problem's solution in simple way
7.so here there are several programming languages used to communicate the machines and its like there
are more human languages used to communicate the humans.
8.application of programming languages:
gaming,banking,machine learning

variables:
1.before gonna start the variables you have to be recollect the details about a data and information.
2.data is a raw and unorganized facts which is to be processed as well its used to develop ideas/conclusions
 and its in the format of numbers and letters also data is not rely on information accompaning data is a low
 level knowledge in addition to data is measured in bytes and bits along with data is structured into tabular data
,graph,data tree not only data is used for analysis inclusive of data is not gonna return a meaningful context cause
its just a data of something for example:a student data marks.

3.information gives the meaningful context after processing from data facts besides its a structured 
format or well refined output.It is measured in time,quantity etc in conjunction with information is relied 
on data on top of information is structured by language,thoughts,ideas besides being its a second level knowledge
besides the fact that it has a decision making too together with there is an example for information:an average
marks of all students data in a class which produces an information.

4.OK now a variable is a container where its used to store data/info or data/info values in it for example:
here is the syntax:variable_name=data_value 
I meant a=13.5 b="I am Adharsh" as I said earlier its seems like a "data" where there can be specific
thing of someone or some thing.But when its a specifically of entire thing of some things 
here its a term called "information".

5.In above sample data:a is a variable and 13.5 is a data assigns into a variable "a".
6.simply you can fixed that as variable=var(where)+i(User)+able(can Able to store data or info)
7.NOTE:variable can store data/values can be stored in temporary storage spaces.


Decision Making statements:
1.Simply its like just assume that there is a condition which is in front of you
if the rain does stop then you can pay football but if the rain doesn't stop then you dont allow to
play football.

syntax:                               example:                  
if(condition)                         if(its raining)         
statements are to be executed         sit inside
else                                  else
statements are to be executed         play football

but there is only one condition is allowed for the answer.


Looping statements:
1.Repeating the tasks multiple times until the condition is satisfied.
for example:you keep on filling the bucket with the mug of water "while" its not full.
another eg:you keep repeating the music "until" you close the music app
eg3:get your salary credited at the end of "each" month.
syntax:
while loop:
while(TRUE){
  statements are being executed when it satisfies the condition TRUE then it comes out from the loop}


Functions:
1.here in reality:
we might to do the daily routine functions like eating,bathing,walking etc...
but these are done by human or some species

function-->is a block of code which performs a specific task

eg2:in banking there are common three functions are held:
1.deposit-function to deposit money
2.withdraw-function to withdraw money
3.balance-function to check balance



oBJECT oRIENTED PROGRAMMING
OOPS is basically defines in real life examples too:
you were surrounded by objects like motorcycle,bicycle,car etc.

In oops there are the concept called classes and objects
Class is a template/blueprint for real-world entities.

they have properties and behaviours not only an object or things have their properties at the same time as behaviours.
for example :mobilephone,washing machine,music keyboard.

properties:color,cost,battery life
behaviours:watch videos,play games,make calls

Objects are specific instance of a class.

for example:assume the abstract of mobile phone which produces the models like apple,motorola,samsung 
